### Type Aliases

In Scala you can create true type aliases via the `Type` keyword. This is not possible in Java but we can get close. In Halva, Type Aliases are generated by the Halva Annotation Processor. You declare an interface that describes the type to be aliased and the Halva processor generates the class during normal javac compilation (you may need to [enable Java Annotation processing](../../../../../../../../IDEs.md) in your IDE/build tool).

#### Declaring the Type to be Aliased

Halva can only alias interfaces. Aliasing concrete classes would most likely require byte code writing. But we can investigate it if there's a need for it. The general form for aliasing is:

```
@TypeAlias interface BaseNameForTheNewClass implements ClassToBeAliased{}
```

The annotated interface may not contain any content - no methods, fields, etc. Here's an example that aliases lists of pairs of string/ints:

```java
@TypeAlias interface PairList implements ConsList<Pair<String, Integer>>{}
```

The generated class will be named `PairListAlias`. However, if you were to name the annotated source interface `PairList_`, the generated class wouild be named `PairList`. You can change these defaults with the TypeAlias attributes `suffix()` and `unsuffix()`.

#### Using the Generated Class 

The generated class is actually an interface and it can be used in place of the original type almost anywhere you'd use the original. However, Java does not support [covariant generic types](http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/library/j-jtp01255/). Therefore, whereby you may always assign the generated alias to a variable of the original type, you may not assign an instance of the original type to an alias. Halva provides a wrapper with every generated alias to work around this. E.g. (given PairList above)

```java
import your.package.name.PairListAlias
import static your.package.name.PairListAlias.PairListAlias

PairListAlias alias = List(Pair("10", 10), Pair("20", 20)); // won't compile - PairListAlias is not a ConsList<Pair<String, Integer>>
PairListAlias alias = PairListAlias(List(Pair("10", 10), Pair("20", 20))); // works
ConsList<Pair<String, Integer>> original = alias; // works
```

#### Example

An example source alias declaration and generated class is here:

* [AliasExample.java](https://github.com/Randgalt/halva/blob/master/examples/example-generated/AliasExample.java)
* [AliasExampleAlias.java](https://github.com/Randgalt/halva/blob/master/examples/example-generated/AliasExampleAlias.java)
